[clang][analyzer] Add checker 'alpha.core.FixedAddressDereference' (#127191)
llvm/llvm-project: clang/docs/analyzer/checkers.rst

warnings for null dereferences of all pointers with address spaces. You can
disable this behavior with the option
``-analyzer-config core.NullDereference:SuppressAddressSpaces=false``.

> Value of this option is used for checker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Value of this option is also used for checker
```

It's really weird to see that the option of a different checker influences some other checker.
That that point maybe the checker option should be hoisted into an analyzer config option instead.
WDYT?

Reviewer: I'd prefer adding and the analyzer option in this PR to prevent a weird half-ways state.
We should also announce this new checker in the release notes along with the change that the option `SuppressAddressSpaces` was hoisted to bring visibility.

   p = (int *) 0x10000; // warn
 }

.. _alpha-core-FixedAddressDereference:

alpha.core.FixedAddressDereference (C, C++, ObjC)
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> Check for dereferences of fixed addresses.

Reviewer: I was expecting an empty line after this line.

   p = (int *) 0x10000; // warn
 }

.. _alpha-core-FixedAddressDereference:

alpha.core.FixedAddressDereference (C, C++, ObjC)
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Check for dereferences of fixed addresses.

A pointer contains a fixed address if it was set to a hard-coded value or it
becomes otherwise obvious that at that point it can have only a single specific
value.

.. code-block:: c

 void test1() {
   int *p = (int *)0x020;
   int x = p[0]; // warn
 }

 void test2(int *p) {
   if (p == (int *)-1)
     *p = 0; // warn
 }

 void test3() {
   int (*p_function)(char, char);
   p_function = (int (*)(char, char))0x04080;
   int x = (*p_function)('x', 'y'); // NO warning yet at functon pointer calls
 }

> The analyzer option ``suppress-all-address-spaces`` affects this checker. If it
> is set to true pointer dereferences with any address space are not reported as
> error. Otherwise only address spaces 256, 257, 258 on target x86/x86-64 are
> excluded from reporting as error. The default is all address spaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the analyzer option ``suppress-all-address-spaces`` is set to true (the
default value), then this checker never reports dereference of pointers with a
specified address space. If the option is set to false, then reports from the
specific x86 address spaces 256, 257 and 258 are still suppressed, but fixed
address dereferences from other address spaces are reported.
```
This is the same paragraph that I suggested for the `NullDereference` checker.

   p = (int *) 0x10000; // warn
 }

.. _alpha-core-FixedAddressDereference:

alpha.core.FixedAddressDereference (C, C++, ObjC)
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> Check for dereferences of fixed values used as pointers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check for dereferences of fixed addresses.
```

> Similarly as at :ref:`_core-NullDereference`, the checker specifically does

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to :ref:`_core-NullDereference`, the checker intentionally does
```

not report dereferences for x86 and x86-64 targets when the
address space is 256 (x86 GS Segment), 257 (x86 FS Segment), or 258 (x86 SS

> segment). (See `X86/X86-64 Language Extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Segment). (See `X86/X86-64 Language Extensions
```

All the previous "segment" words were capitalized.

<https://clang.llvm.org/docs/LanguageExtensions.html#memory-references-to-specified-segments>`__
for reference.)

If you want to disable this behavior, set the ``SuppressAddressSpaces`` option
of checker ``core.NullDereference`` to false, like
``-analyzer-config core.NullDereference:SuppressAddressSpaces=false``. The value

> of this option is used for both checkers.

Reviewer: This part of the doc feels less relevant than an example. I'd rather move this after the examples, as this fine-tunes the behavior.
